README.md, before:

# Development and calculation of the structural descriptors for nuclear receptors  
The project is aimed at exploring the possibility of using structural descriptors to distinguish patterns in protein binding methods, in particular nuclear receptors (NRs). The study is conducted on the example of Vitamin D Receptor (VDR), as a nuclear receptor with known structure and binding methods.  
### Project goal  
The aim is to create a library of structural descriptors and calculate them on the example of nuclear receptors.  
### Tasks of the project  
- To make a preliminary list of structural descriptors based on literature references and own suggestions;
- To form the final list of descriptors;
- To download protein structures of NRs from PDB;
- To create the calculation tools of structural descriptors for the PDB structures.
### Methods
Data for the project were obtained from ProteinDataBank (www.rcsb.org). It is 151 PDB-files, that contain information about three-dimensional structures of VDR.
Data preprocessing was performed by Schrodinger 2017-1. Library for calculation of descriptors was written using Python 3 and Bio.PDB package; information about secondary structures was gained using DSSP algorithm. Validation was performed by PyMOL.
Then the implemented descriptors' calculations were calculated for preprocessed and unprocessed structures and k-means clustering of the results was performed, visualisation was made by tSNE method.
Statistical analysis of obtained data was made on R, using such methods as nonparametric Wilcoxon test and Kruskal test both with Bonferroni correction.
### System requirements for developed software
For our project we used Python 3.6 and its libraries biopython 1.76, numpy 1.18.4, pandas 0.25.2. Also script requires presence of folder with PDB-files, that should be calculated. 
Before running the script user should enter the path to the folder with PDB-files, name of output csv-file, numbers of charge clamp residues, name of analysed species and status of PDB-files preprocessing (0 - unprocessed, 1 - preprocessed) in the end of code. After that code is running.
### Example of output file
The result of running is csv-table with names of descriptors in columns and PDB-structures in rows.
Example of output-file is [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QU5r8OjGExuHJtQrdT7cawF_yZN8bV0N/view?usp=sharing).
### References
1. rcsb.org. H.M. Berman, J. Westbrook, Z. Feng, G. Gilliland, T.N. Bhat, H. Weissig, I.N. Shindyalov, P.E. Bourne.
(2000) The Protein Data Bank Nucleic Acids Research, 28: 235-242.
2. Stephen K Burley, Helen M. Berman, et al.
RCSB Protein Data Bank: biological macromolecular structures enabling research and education in fundamental biology, biomedicine, biotechnology and energy (2019) Nucleic Acids Research 47: D464–D474. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky1004.
3. Jain P., Hirst J. D. Study of protein structural descriptors: towards similarity and classification //Proceedings of Computational Biophysics to Systems Biology. – 2007. – С. 165-167.
4. Yaghmaei S. et al. Agonist and antagonist binding to the nuclear vitamin D receptor: dynamics, mutation effects and functional implications //In silico pharmacology. – 2013. – Т. 1. – №. 1. – С. 2.
5. Bourguet W., Germain P., Gronemeyer H. Nuclear receptor ligand-binding domains: three-dimensional structures, molecular interactions and pharmacological implications //Trends in pharmacological sciences. – 2000. – Т. 21. – №. 10. – С. 381-388.
6. Schrödinger Release 2020-2: Maestro, Schrödinger, LLC, New York, NY, 2020.
7. The PyMOL Molecular Graphics System, Version 2.0 Schrödinger, LLC.

Commit message:

Update README, add Analysis and src dir

README.md, after:

# Development and calculation of the structural descriptors for nuclear receptors  
The project is aimed at exploring the possibility of using structural descriptors to distinguish patterns in protein binding methods, in particular nuclear receptors (NRs). The study is conducted on the example of Vitamin D Receptor (VDR), as a nuclear receptor with known structure and binding methods.  
### Project goal  
The aim is to create a library of structural descriptors and calculate them on the example of nuclear receptors.  
### Tasks of the project  
- To make a preliminary list of structural descriptors based on literature references and own suggestions;
- To form the final list of descriptors;
- To download protein structures of NRs from PDB;
- To create the calculation tools of structural descriptors for the PDB structures.
### Methods
Data for the project were obtained from ProteinDataBank (www.rcsb.org). It is 151 PDB-files, that contain information about three-dimensional structures of VDR.
Data preprocessing was performed by Schrodinger 2017-1. Library for calculation of descriptors was written using Python 3 and Bio.PDB package; information about secondary structures was gained using DSSP algorithm. Validation was performed by PyMOL.
Then the implemented descriptors' calculations were calculated for preprocessed and unprocessed structures and k-means clustering of the results was performed, visualisation was made by tSNE method.
Statistical analysis of obtained data was made on R, using such methods as nonparametric Wilcoxon test and Kruskal test both with Bonferroni correction.
### Usage
To calculate most descriptors (except ligand descriptors and sandwitch layer descriptor, you need to launch them separately) you need to use ```Calculate_Descriptors.py```. Before running the script user should enter the path to the folder with PDB-files, name of output csv-file, numbers of charge clamp residues, name of analysed species and status of PDB-files preprocessing (0 - unprocessed, 1 - preprocessed) in the end of code. After that code is running.
### Recomended system requirements for developed software
- Ubuntu 18.04
- Python 3.6
- Biopython 1.76
- Numpy 1.18.4
- Sympy 1.6
- Pandas 0.25.2
### Example of output file
The result of running is csv-table with names of descriptors in columns and PDB-structures in rows.
You can find result csv-tables in ```Analysis/data```.
### References
1. rcsb.org. H.M. Berman, J. Westbrook, Z. Feng, G. Gilliland, T.N. Bhat, H. Weissig, I.N. Shindyalov, P.E. Bourne.
(2000) The Protein Data Bank Nucleic Acids Research, 28: 235-242.
2. Stephen K Burley, Helen M. Berman, et al.
RCSB Protein Data Bank: biological macromolecular structures enabling research and education in fundamental biology, biomedicine, biotechnology and energy (2019) Nucleic Acids Research 47: D464–D474. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky1004.
3. Jain P., Hirst J. D. Study of protein structural descriptors: towards similarity and classification //Proceedings of Computational Biophysics to Systems Biology. – 2007. – С. 165-167.
4. Yaghmaei S. et al. Agonist and antagonist binding to the nuclear vitamin D receptor: dynamics, mutation effects and functional implications //In silico pharmacology. – 2013. – Т. 1. – №. 1. – С. 2.
5. Bourguet W., Germain P., Gronemeyer H. Nuclear receptor ligand-binding domains: three-dimensional structures, molecular interactions and pharmacological implications //Trends in pharmacological sciences. – 2000. – Т. 21. – №. 10. – С. 381-388.
6. Schrödinger Release 2020-2: Maestro, Schrödinger, LLC, New York, NY, 2020.
7. The PyMOL Molecular Graphics System, Version 2.0 Schrödinger, LLC.
